---
title: Software
author: Thomas Proisl
---

## SoMaJo ##

SoMaJo is a state-of-the-art tokenizer and sentence splitter for
German web and social media texts that won the [EmpiriST 2015 shared
task](https://sites.google.com/site/empirist2015/) on automatic
linguistic annotation of computer-mediated communication / social
media. As such, it is particularly well-suited to perform tokenization
on all kinds of written discourse, for example chats, forums, wiki
talk pages, tweets, blog comments, social networks, SMS and WhatsApp
dialogues.

Developed in collaboration with [Peter Uhrig](http://peter-uhrig.de).

<https://github.com/tsproisl/SoMaJo>


## SoMeWeTa ##

SoMeWeTa is a part-of-speech tagger that supports domain adaptation
and that can incorporate external sources of information such as Brown
clusters and lexica. It is based on the averaged structured perceptron
and uses beam search and an early update strategy.

SoMeWeTa achieves state-of-the-art results on the German web and
social media texts from the [EmpiriST 2015 shared
task](https://sites.google.com/site/empirist2015/) on automatic
linguistic annotation of computer-mediated communication / social
media. Therefore, SoMeWeTa is particularly well-suited to tag all
kinds of written German discourse, for example chats, forums, wiki
talk pages, tweets, blog comments, social networks, SMS and WhatsApp
dialogues.

<https://github.com/tsproisl/SoMeWeTa>


## Pareidoscope ##

The Pareidoscope is a collection of tools for determining the
association between arbitrary linguistic structures, e.g. between
words (collocations), between words and structures (collostructions)
or between larger linguistic structures such as dependency graphs.

<https://github.com/tsproisl/Pareidoscope>


## Treebank.info ##

Treebank.info is an intuitive, graphical web interface that allows
linguists to search for dependency structures in corpora.

Developed in collaboration with [Peter Uhrig](http://peter-uhrig.de).

<http://treebank.info>


## CWB-treebank ##

CWB-treebank is an efficient graph matching software for dependency
graphs (stemmata). CWB-treebank is the main reason for the speed with
which Treebank.info can answer linguistic queries.

Developed in collaboration with [Peter Uhrig](http://peter-uhrig.de).

<https://launchpad.net/cwb-treebank>


## Usurper ##

Usurper is an implementation of the unsupervised dependency parser
described by [SÃ¸gaard
(2012)](https://doi.org/10.1017/S1351324912000022). The parser is
language independent and does not need any training data.

<https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Usurper>


## Erlangen Valency Patternbank ##

The Erlangen Valency Patternbank by [Thomas
Herbst](https://www.anglistik.phil.fau.de/fields/engling/chair/) and
[Peter Uhrig](http://peter-uhrig.de) is an online inventory of valency
patterns based on the [*Valency Dictionary of
English*](https://www.degruyter.com/view/product/48756). I was
involved in the technical design and the implementation.

<http://www.patternbank.uni-erlangen.de>
